---
slug: working-9-to-5
title: Working 9 to 5, what a way to make a living!
author: Aadit Kamat
author_title: Software Engineer @ Visa Singapore. Opinions are my own and not the views of my employer.
author_url: https://github.com/aaditkamat
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/30969577?s=400&u=9558fc3557d79c88a7080034fe8c22654aca2e4d&v=4
tags: [work]
---

As a child, I never considered what it would be like to work regular hours in an office job. This is something that I took for granted. However, now as a fresh graduate who has stepped into the working world, I have been thinking more about how a 9-to-5 job seems to have almost become a rite of passage since the Industrial Age.

To be fair, there are different types of occupations in modern society. Hence, not everyone really works regular hours during a designated work week. Some employees are required to work on night shifts or alternate full day shifts, while others may have flexible working hours.

However, as more industries are pivoting towards regular hours, it's important to ask this question: should companies revise their working schedules or continue to stick to the status quo? I believe that is it best if the management of a company can assess its own situation holistically and follow what works best for the organisation as a whole, rather than having to follow what is the agreed upon norm for the insustry. As demonstrated in the case of Iceland, where companies are moving toward four day work weeks, governments also have an important role to play. Going forward, this will be seen as an essential component of employee welfare. There isn't a one size fits all approach to this dilemma, but an approach that adapts as per the demands of different roles. Companies will need to find workarounds that preserve the integrity of the organisation if different groups of employees have different working hours.

